#summary Extra steps for building from vt100 branch
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

This procedure is necessary to correct certain omissions and/or flaws in the header files that come with iphone-binutils.  You will probably need to start with the instructions in Building.

= Details =

== At the Checkout Counter ==
First, check out the code by executing 

{{{
svn co http://svn.googlecode.com/svn/branches/vt100 branches/vt100
}}}


== "Make"ing a Break For It ==

After cd'ing to branches/vt100, try executing make.  You may receive errors.  This is unfortunate.


== Clearing Customs ==

Part of the problem is the fact that many of the default UIKit headers are missing #import directives.  Some headers are missing entirely.  The following fixes will help you get going.  You will probably need to sudo your favorite text editor to change these files.  If you are using the default install directory for iphone-binutils, they will be in /Developer/SDKs/iPhone/includes.

*UIKit/WebCaretChangeListenerProtocol.h*

If this file does not exist, create it with the following contents:
{{{
@protocol WebCaretChangeListener
- (void)caretChanged;
@end
}}}


*UIKit/UIDefaultKeyboardLayout.h*

Add a line with
{{{
#import "UIKeyboardInputProtocol.h"
}}}
after the other #imports.


*UIKit/UIKeyboardInputProtocol.h*

If this file does not exist, create it with the following contents:
{{{
#import <UIKit/UITextTraitsClientProtocol.h>

@protocol UIKeyboardInput <UITextTraitsClient>
- (void)deleteBackward;
- (void)insertText:(id)fp8;
- (void)replaceCurrentWordWithText:(id)fp8;
- (void)setMarkedText:(id)fp8;
- (id)markedText;
- (unsigned short)characterInRelationToCaretSelection:(int)fp8;
- (unsigned short)characterBeforeCaretSelection;
- (unsigned short)characterAfterCaretSelection;
- (struct __GSFont *)fontForCaretSelection;
- (struct CGColor *)textColorForCaretSelection;
- (struct CGRect)rectContainingCaretSelection;
- (id)wordRangeContainingCaretSelection;
- (id)wordContainingCaretSelection;
- (id)wordInRange:(id)fp8;
- (void)expandSelectionToStartOfWordContainingCaretSelection;
- (int)wordOffsetInRange:(id)fp8;
- (BOOL)spaceFollowsWordInRange:(id)fp8;
- (id)previousNGrams:(unsigned int)fp8;
- (struct _NSRange)selectionRange;
- (BOOL)hasSelection;
- (BOOL)selectionAtDocumentStart;
- (BOOL)selectionAtSentenceStart;
- (BOOL)selectionAtWordStart;
- (BOOL)rangeAtSentenceStart:(id)fp8;
- (void)markCurrentWordForAutoCorrection:(id)fp8 correction:(id)fp12;
- (void)moveBackward:(unsigned int)fp8;
- (void)moveForward:(unsigned int)fp8;
- (void)selectAll;
- (void)setText:(id)fp8;
- (id)text;
- (void)updateSelectionWithPoint:(struct CGPoint)fp8;
- (void)setCaretChangeListener:(id)fp8;
- (struct CGRect)caretRect;
- (struct CGRect)convertCaretRect:(struct CGRect)fp8;
- (id)keyboardInputView;
- (BOOL)isShowingPlaceholder;
- (void)setupPlaceholderTextIfNeeded;
- (BOOL)isProxyFor:(id)fp8;
- (BOOL)interceptKeyEvent:(struct __GSEvent *)fp8;
@end
}}}


*UIKit/UIKeyboardImpl.h*

Add a line with
{{{
#import "UIKeyboardInputProtocol.h"
}}}
after the other #imports.


== bag.ungetc(cat) ==

If you have any further problems, please post them under [http://code.google.com/p/mobileterminal/issues/detail?id=36 Issue #36].

Thanks to si...@findsimon.com for helping to identify these build problems.





