#summary Frequently Asked Questions about running the iPhone Terminal app under iPhone OS release 1.1.4.

= Frequently Asked Questions (for running MobileTerminal under 1.1.4) =

Some questions seem to come back over and over again so I thought I'd try to summarize them...

Lennart, 080226

_NB: This FAQ was written a while back and is now mostly outdated.  It primarily applies to running MobileTerminal under the 1.1.X release of the iPhone firmware together with the BSD Subsystem 2.X.  It all works a lot better under 2.0 with Cydia, where no special tricks are needed._ 

Lennart, 080820


----

*Q:* I upgraded to BSD Subsystem 2.x and now Terminal is asking me for my password when I start it.  I have tried all the usual ones, but none of them work.  Help!

*A (short):* Upgrade to the latest version of Terminal.

*A (long):* This is a problem with /usr/bin/login trying to log you in as root when the process itself is running as user mobile.  For this to work, the login program must either be installed setuid root or the process that executes it must already be running as root.  Neither of this is true with Terminal and BSD Subsystem 2.x, so login can't become root regardless of what password you give it.

----

*Q:* I upgraded to BSD Subsystem 2.x and now backspace isn't working anymore in Terminal.  How do I make it work again?

*A (short):* Upgrade to the latest version of Terminal.

*A (long):* With older versions of Terminal and later versions of BSD Subsystem, the TERM environment variable isn't passed correctly from Terminal to the shell, so you end up with a "dumb" network terminal settings instead. To override this without upgrading, set TERM=vt100 on the command line or in your .profile.

----

*Q:* I installed Term-vt100 using Installer.app but it isn't working very well.  What should I do?

*A (short):* Uninstall Term-vt100.  Then upgrade to the latest version of Terminal.

*A (long):* The current Term-vt100 package is based on an old version of Terminal (version 198).  It is hopelessly out of date.  Please bribe / plead / convince the maintainer of the Term-vt100 package to update it.

----

*Q:* How do I upgrade to the latest version of Terminal?

*A (short):* Add iphone.lenlolabs.com to your Installer sources.  You will find the latest version of Terminal in the System category.

*A (long):* Download the latest version of Terminal-nnn.zip to your computer from the Downloads section. Then copy it to your iPhone using scp or some other means.  Remote login to your iPhone using ssh and unzip Terminal-nnn.zip into the /Applications directory.

----

*Q:* I installed the latest version of Terminal on my iPhone and I'm now logged in as user mobile instead of root.  This is useless!  I want to be root!

*A:* Alright, alright already.  Just run the "su" command to become root, but only when you need it.  Remember, we're talking UN*X here.  It's good to be a normal user.  Really.

----

*Q:* The _su_ command isn't working!  You have tricked me!  Shame on you!

*A (short):* Add iphone.lenlolabs.com to your Installer sources.  You will find a package called _BSD Subsystem 2.x SU Replacement_ in the Tweaks category.  Install it.  You now have a working _su_ command.

*A (long):* The _su_ command is broken in BSD Subsystem 2.0 and 2.1.  It needs to be installed as setuid root and recompiled to get rid of a relative library reference.  Sorry, forgot to mention that.  Please ask / trick / persuade the maintainer of the BSD Subsystem package to fix it.