#summary How to install the Terminal.app package on your iPhone
#labels Featured

Status: <font color="red">OBSOLETE</font>  This page is outdated and needs to be updated.


= Introduction =

This page describes the process of installing Terminal.app on your iPhone.  This assumes you have already downloaded the latest mobileterminal binary, or built it from source (see Building).  You should also have already probably should have installed sshd on your iphone, and have an executable /bin/sh or /bin/login (chmod +x /bin/sh /bin/login).

= Requirements =

Before you can run the mobile terminal, you need to be able to copy files back and forth to your phone, and be able to set the executable bit on the terminal program (i.e. chmod +x).

Most people get files on their iPhone using one or more of the following methods.  I prefer sshd and iphonedisk.

  * http://ellkro.jot.com/WikiHome/InstallingDropbearOSX
  * Get the iphone-binkit from http://iphone.natetrue.com/ which includes a lot of the common unix utilities you may need, including /bin/chmod, /bin/sh, /usr/bin/login, etc.
  * You can use [http://iphonedisk.googlecode.com iphonedisk] if you have the mac os x developer tools installed and want to mount your iphone as a disk drive

= Installation =

You should already have a Terminal.app (either from a binary distribution in the Downloads section, or built from *make* and *make package*.  Terminal.app is just a directory with multiple files including the Terminal binary itself, an Info.plist and some icons.

The objective is to copy Terminal.app and its contents to the /Applications/ folder on your iPhone.  You must also make sure that the Terminal binary inside the Terminal.app folder has the executable bit set.

Here is an example of how to install Terminal.app once you have sshd working.  The default password for root on the iphone is documented elsewhere.  You should also figure out the IP address of your iphone.  It uses DHCP so you can find its IP by going to Settings > General > Network > WiFi > (select the network you are connected to via the blue arrow to the right). Now you should see a list of info on you iPhone/iPod, including your IP Address.   The IP for my iphone is 10.0.1.25 in this example.

{{{
   $ scp -rp Terminal.app root@10.0.1.25:/Applications/
}}}

If you don't have scp, and copied the files over using iphonedisk or iPhoneInterface, then you will need to manually make the Terminal binary executable.  There currently isn't a known way to set permissions using AFC.

{{{
  $ ssh root@10.0.1.25 "chmod +x /Applications/Terminal.app/Terminal"
}}}

You should also make sure that you have copied over /usr/bin/login, /bin/sh, and whatever other unix tools you will need to make sure they are also executable.  See iphone-binkit for a great binary distribution. 

== Really Simple Way ==
  # Open Cydia on your jailbroken 2.0 - 2.0.1 iPhone
  # Go to the search tab
  # Search for "MobileTerminal" it should have only one result
  # Select Install and Confirm
  # Done